
= Multi-User Environment Server Installation Instructions

These instructions aren't really all that useful yet. I haven't yet had time to
craft a useful installation program, but intend to have something done for the
next release.

In the meantime, provided you have all of the prerequisites installed, the
server can be run from within the distribution directory. See the 'Running'
section for details.

These instructions are also decidedly Unix-biased, as is the server itself. I
apologize to those of you trying to run this on some other platform. Suggestions
or patches for other-platform compatibility are welcome at <ged@FaerieMUD.org>.


== Prerequisites

Versions listed are the ones I've tested with. Earlier versions may work, but
your mileage may vary.

* Ruby (>= 1.7.2)
  Home page:: http://www.ruby-lang.org/

* pp - Ruby pretty-printer (>=0.4)
  RAA::      http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/raa-list.rhtml?name=pp
  Download:: http://cvs.m17n.org/~akr/pp/download.html

* HashSlice - Slicing for Hash objects
  RAA::		 http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/raa-list.rhtml?name=HashSlice
  Download:: http://www.deveiate.org/code/Ruby-HashSlice-1.03.tar.bz2

* Ruby-Poll - Object-oriented implementation of the poll(2) system call (>= 0.03)
  RAA::		 http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/raa-list.rhtml?name=Ruby-Poll
  Download:: http://www.devEiate.org/code/Ruby-Poll-0.03.tar.bz2

* REXML - XML Processor (>= 2.5.1)
  Homepage:: http://www.germane-software.com/software/rexml/
  Download:: http://www.germane-software.com/archives/rexml_2.5.1.tgz

* Log4R - Logging library (>= 1.0.2)
  Homepage:: http://log4r.sourceforge.net/
  Download:: http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=43396

=== Optional libraries:

* Test::Unit - For running unit tests (>= 0.1.4)
  RAA::       http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/raa-list.rhtml?name=Test%3A%3AUnit
  Download::  http://testunit.talbott.ws/packages/testunit-0.1.4.tar.gz

* ruby-tcpwrap - Config option (>=0.3)
  RAA::       http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/raa-list.rhtml?name=ruby-tcpwrap
  Download::  http://www.shugo.net/archive/ruby-tcpwrap/ruby-tcpwrap-0.3.tar.gz

* RDoc - Documentation generator (>= beta-1)
  RAA::       http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/raa-list.rhtml?name=RDoc
  Home page:: http://rdoc.sourceforge.net

* Rimport - RDoc => ri source import utility
  RAA::       http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/raa-list.rhtml?name=Rimport
  Download::  http://www.jamesbritt.com/code/rimport-latest.rb


== Installation

These instructions assume that you've already unpacked the distribution
somewhere, and have changed your working directory to the resultant
subdirectory.

The server startup script is (for now) designed to allow you to run the server
without installing anything into your ruby lib directory. If you should wish to
install the MUES classes anyway, you can accomplish this with the following
commands:

 $ su
 # ruby install.rb

This will prompt you for a 'server directory', which should be the path to the
directory you intend to run the server from. This directory will contain the
shell command and environment class directories, as well as the server startup
script and several utilities. The MUES libraries, along with several support
libraries will be installed under the site_ruby/version directory of the running
Ruby's library directory.


== Documentation

If you have the RDoc tool installed, you can create documentation for all the
MUES classes in the form of HTML and manual pages with the following command:

 $ ruby docs/makedocs.rb

This will leave HTML documentation in 'docs/html'.


== Running

If you wish to run the server from the distribution directory (no installation
necessary):

 $ ./quickstart.rb

If you've run the install script, assuming the 'server directory' you chose is
in the environmental variable SERVER_ROOT:

 $ cp $SERVER_ROOT/minimal-config.xml $SERVER_ROOT/config.xml
 (edit $SERVER_ROOT/config.xml to reflect your system and desires)
 $ $SERVER_ROOT/bin/mues.rb --init

After starting the server, you can telnet to the host and port you configured
(4848 by default) to connect to the server, eg.:

 $ telnet localhost 4848

When starting the server in init mode (ie., with --init), you can log in from
localhost using 'admin' as the username, and no password.

Once connected, you should turn off initmode by executing the '/initoff' command
at the prompt, and then create a new user for yourself at the 'admin' level with
the '/adduser' command.


