

                    The Multi-User Environment Server (MUES)
                    ----------------------------------------

The MUES is a multi-threaded, event-driven internet game environment server
written in Ruby. It is intended to facilitate the building of online multiplayer
games or simulations by providing one or more dynamically-programmed object
environments (worlds), the means to access these environments using a network
client, various useful services or daemons for creating in-game systems, and an
event system for facilitating the interaction of all the parts.

This is an *alpha* release. It might blow up, compromise your security, write
random data to sensitive portions of your hard drive, or otherwise fail to work
as advertised. It is intended to be used by developers who are interested in
helping out or curious onlookers who don't mind getting wet.

That said, I would greatly appreciate feedback on any aspect of this
software. Suggestions, feature requests, questions, design critiques, and bug
reports are most welcome. Relevant patches are particularly helpful. I may be
reached at <ged@FaerieMUD.org>.

For installation instructions (such as they are at this point), see the INSTALL
file.

If you're really impatient, like me, and just want to test things out, see the
QUICKSTART document. It includes instructions that should let you get the server
up and running with a minimum of effort.

For more information, see http://mues.FaerieMUD.org/, and the FaerieMUD
Documentation Wiki at http://docs.FaerieMUD.org/.

This software is Free Software. You may use, modify, and/or redistribute this
software under the terms of the Perl Artistic License, a copy of which should
have been included in this distribution (See the file Artistic). If it was not, a
copy of it may be obtained from http://language.perl.com/misc/Artistic.html or
http://www.faeriemud.org/artistic.html)

THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


- Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>
$Id: README,v 1.1 2001/11/01 15:52:08 deveiant Exp $




